1.how to create a file in python

2.how to open a file in python

3.how to read file in python

4.how to read file line by line into list

5.how to write a file in python

6.how to close the file in python

7.how to delete a file in python

8.different file modes in python

9.assign a file name to the variable

10.choosing right mode to read, write and append -- when to choose

11.closing file after using it

programs:

1.WAPP to remove all the duplicates lines from the file.

Hint: Read the file line-by-line in the list and find all the unique elements in the list. Write back all the content from the list in the file.

2.WAPP to randomly select any line from the file.

Hint: Read the file line-by-line in the list and randomly select elements from the list.

3.WAPP to add a given line to file if it is not already there.

Hint: Read the line-by-line file into the list. Search if the given text is present. If it is not there, append the new content inside the file as a new line.

4.WAPP to find the longest line in the file.

                                       SET-1
                                                
 Q1. Write a program in python to read entire content of file (“data.txt”)
 
 Q2. Write a program in python to read first 5 characters from the file(“data.txt”) 
 
 Q3. Write a program in python to read first line from the file(“data.txt”)
 
 Q4. Write a program in python to display number of lines in a file(“data.txt”). 
 
 Q5. Write a program in python to display first line from the file(“data.txt”) using readlines(). 
 
 Q6. Accept five sports names from the user and write in a file “sport.txt” (each name should write in separate line)
 
 Q7. Accept five hobbies from the user and write in a file “hobby.txt” (each hobby should write in separate line) without using      write() function.

                                                  SET-2
                               
1.Write a function in python to read the content from a text file "poem.txt" line by line and display the same on screen.

2.Write a function in python to count the number of lines from a text file "story.txt" which is not starting with an alphabet "T". 

Example: If the file "story.txt" contains the following lines: A boy is playing there.

There is a playground.

An aeroplane is in the sky.

The sky is pink.

Alphabets and numbers are allowed in the password.

The function should display the output as 3

3.Write a function in Python to count and display the total number of words in a text file. 

4.Write a function in Python to read lines from a text file "notes.txt". Your function should find and display the occurrence of the word "the".

For example: If the content of the file is:
"India is the fastest-growing economy. India is looking for more investments around the globe. The whole world is looking at India as a great market. Most of the Indians can foresee the heights that India is capable of reaching."
The output should be 5. 

5.Write a function display_words() in python to read lines from a text file "story.txt", and display those words, which are less than 4 characters. 

6.Write a function in Python to count the words "this" and "these" present in a text file "article.txt". 

7.Write a function in Python to count words in a text file those are ending with alphabet "e". 

8.Write a function in Python to count uppercase character in a text file. 

9.A text file named "matter.txt" contains some text, which needs to be displayed such that every next character is separated by a symbol "#". Write a function definition for hash_display() in Python that would display the entire content of the file matter.txt in the desired format.

Example :

If the file matter.txt has the following content stored in it :

THE WORLD IS ROUND

The function hash_display() should display the following content :

T#H#E# #W#O#R#L#D# #I#S# #R#O#U#N#D#

10.Aditi has used a text editing software to type some text. After saving the article as WORDS.TXT, she realised that she has wrongly typed alphabet J in place of alphabet I everywhere in the article.
Write a function definition for JTOI() in Python that would display the corrected version of entire content of the file WORDS.TXT with all the alphabets "J" to be displayed as an alphabet "I" on screen.
Note: Assuming that WORD.TXT does not contain any J alphabet otherwise.

Example:
If Aditi has stored the following content in the file WORDS.TXT:
WELL, THJS JS A WORD BY JTSELF. YOU COULD STRETCH THJS TO BE A SENTENCE
The function JTOI() should display the following content:
WELL, THIS IS A WORD BY ITSELF. YOU COULD STRETCH THIS TO BE A SENTENCE 

11.Write a function AMCount() in Python, which should read each character of a text file STORY.TXT, should count and display the occurance of alphabets A and M (including small cases a and m too).

For Example:

If the file content is as follows:

Updated information

As simplified by official websites.

The EUCount() function should display the output as:

A or a:4

M or m :2

12.A binary file "Book.dat" has structure [BookNo, Book_Name, Author, Price].

i. Write a user defined function createFile() to input data for a record and add to Book.dat.

ii. Write a function countRec(Author) in Python which accepts the Author name as parameter and count and return number of books by the given Author are stored in the binary file "Book.dat" 

13.A binary file "STUDENT.DAT" has structure (admission_number, Name, Percentage). Write a function count_rec() in Python that would read contents of the file "STUDENT.DAT" and display the details of those students whose percentage is above 75. Also display number of students scoring above 75% 

14.Given a binary file employee.dat, created using dictionary object having keys: (empcode, name, and salary)

Write a python function that add one more record at the end of file.

Write a python function that display all employee records whose salary is more that 30000

15.Write a function to search and display details of student whose rollno is '1005' from the binary file student.dat having structure [rollno, name, class and fees]. 

16.A binary file school.dat has structure(rollno, name, class, fees)
Write a definition for function total_fees( ) that reads each object of file and calculate the total fees of students and display the same. 

17.A binary file players.dat, containing records of following list format: [code, name, country and total runs]

-->Write a python function that display all records where player name starts from 'A'

-->Write a python function that accept country as an argument and count and display the number of players of that country.

-->Write a python function that add one record at the end of file.

18.Given a binary file game.dat, containing records of following list format: [game_name, participants]

Write a function in Python that would read contents from the file game.dat and creates a file named basket.dat copying only those records from game.dat where the game name is "Basket Ball".

                                              

                                    BINARY FILE PROGRAMS:

1.A binary file “Book.dat” has structure [BookNo, Book_Name, Author, Price].

(a)Write a user defined function CreateFile() to input data for a record and add to Book.dat .

(b)Write a function CountRec(Author) in Python which accepts the Author name as parameter and count and return number of books    by the given Author are stored in the binary file “Book.dat

2.A binary file “STUDENT.DAT” has structure [admission_number, Name, Percentage]. Write a function countrec() in Python that would read contents of the file “STUDENT.DAT” and display the details of those students whose percentage is above 75. Also display number of students scoring above 75%.

3.Write a function in python to search and display details, whose destination is “Cochin” from binary file “Bus.Dat”. Assuming the binary file is containing the following elements in the list:

(1).Bus Number

(2).Bus Starting Point

(3).Bus Destination

4.Write a function addrec() in Python to add more new records at the bottom of a binary file “STUDENT.dat”, assuming the binary file is containing the following structure :

[Roll Number, Student Name]

5.Write a function searchprod( pc) in python to display the record of a particular product from a file product.dat whose code is passed as an argument. 
Structure of product contains the following elements

 [product code , product price]

6.Write a function routechange(route number) which takes the Route number as parameter and modify the route name(Accept it from the user) of passed route number in a binary file “route.dat”.

7.Write a function countrec(sport name) in Python which accepts the name of sport as parameter and count and display the coach name of a sport which is passed as argument from the binary file “sport.dat”. Structure of record in a file is [sport name, coach name]

8.A binary file “salary.DAT” has structure [employee id, employee name, salary]. Write a function countrec() in Python that would read contents of the file “salary.DAT” and display the details of those employee whose salary is above 20000.

9.Amit is a monitor of class XII-A and he stored the record of all the students of his class in a file named “class.dat”. Structure of record is [roll number, name, percentage]. His computer teacher has assigned the following duty to Amit

Write a function remcount( ) to count the number of students who need remedial class (student who scored less than 40 percent)

10.A binary file “emp.dat” has structure [employee id, employee name]. Write a function delrec(employee number) in Python that would read contents of the file “emp.dat” and delete the details of those employee whose employee number is passed as argument.

                                       TEXT FILE PROGRAMS:
                                                
Q1. Write a function in Python that counts the number of “Me” or “My” (in smaller case also) words present in a text file “STORY.TXT”. If the “STORY.TXT” contents are as follows:

My first book was Me and My Family. It gave me chance to be Known to the world.

The output of the function should be: Count of Me/My in file: 4

Q2. Write a function AMCount() in Python, which should read each character of a text file STORY.TXT, should count and display the occurence of alphabets ‘A’ and ‘M’ (including small cases ‘a’ and ‘m ‘too). Example: If the file content is as follows:

The AMCount() function should display the output as: A or a = 4, M or m =2

Q3. Write a function in python to count the number of lines in a text file
STORY.TXT’ which is starting with an alphabet ‘A’ .

Q4. Write a method/function DISPLAYWORDS() in python to read lines from a text file STORY.TXT, and display those words, which are less than 4 characters.

Q5. Write a function RevText() to read a text file “ Story.txt “ and Print only word starting with ‘I’ in reverse order .

 Example: If value in text file is: INDIA IS MY COUNTRY Output will be: AIDNI SI MY COUNTRY.

Q6. Write a function in python to count the number of lowercase alphabets present in a text file “Story.txt”

Q7. Write a user-defined function named count() that will read the contents of text file named “Story.txt” and count the number of lines which starts with either “I‟ or “M‟. E.g. In the following paragraph, there are 2 lines starting with “I‟ or “M‟:

    “India is the fastest growing economy. 
    India is looking for more investments around the globe. 
    The whole world is looking at India as a great market. 
    Most of the Indians can foresee the heights that India is capable of   reaching.”

Q8. Write a function countmy( )in Python to read the text file “Story.txt” and count the number of times “my” or “My” occurs in the file. For example if the file “Story.TXT” contains:

“This is my website. I have displayed my preferences in the CHOICE section.”

The countmy( ) function should display the output as: “my occurs 2 times”.

Q9. Write a user defined function countwords() in python to count how many words are present in a text file named “story.txt”. For example, if the file story.txt contains following text:

    Co-education system is necessary for a balanced society. With co-education system, Girls and Boys may develop a feeling of       mutual respect towards each other.
    The function should display the following:
    Total number of words present in the text file are: 24

Q10. Write a user defined function in Python that displays the number of lines starting with ‘H’ in the file story.txt. Eg: if the file contains:

    Whose woods these are I think I know. 
    His house is in the village though; 
    He will not see me stopping here 
    To watch his woods fill up with snow. 
Then the line count should be 2
